Thank you, sir.
Yes, sir.
Well, thank you, boys.
Thank you.
Howdy, friends.
How are y'all?
Yes, sir.
You're right.
Here it is once again.
Time for Jelly Elliot and the three knot heads.
Friends, Jelly Elliot.
That's me.
The old wood's right.
Sitting here under the old pine tree, friends.
Just shucking this corn here.
Yeah, fixing to go to the mill.
We want you to pull up a chair there, friends, and set a spell with it.
We're going to...
dish out some of these old hillbilly tunes here, and first one thing or another, and we've got a few things we want to talk over with you about the woods and the forest and such and stuff.
Friends, don't forget that the boys and myself come to you with the best wishes and compliments of your own State Forest Service and Uncle Sam's Forest Service.
Here we go with the first tune.
Features Herman, Herman with his double bell, a steel guitar here with the little thing he calls there Roadside Ride.
Thank you.
Right there.
Thank you, Herman.
Thank you.
You know, that's an old tune, old steel tune.
I guess it'll always stay poplar.
Mighty good fiddling there, Herman.
Thank you a lot, buddy.
Well, let's see here.
You know, friends, I wanted to tell you about a friend I got.
A friend.
He's my friend here, actually.
Farm Forrester.
You know the Forrester boy there?
You probably got one there in your farm.
in your neighborhood somewhere.
He's there.
He's around somewhere.
He's a good fella.
He's a friend to everybody.
Not only my friend, but everybody.
He's a hard-working fella, and he's sincere.
He's willing to help.
Whenever your name comes up on the list, well, he's willing to help.
He can tell you what you've got in the timber line.
If you've got some woods out there, timber and all, he's the guy who can tell you what you've got, show you how to market for the cutting to get the highest prices,
all that sort of stuff out of it.
Take care of the trees and everything so you'll have another crop ready for cutting a little later on, see?
And he'll help you find a market for your timber and all that.
You know, I have a chance once in a while to go around with this friend of mine.
I was with him one day, and we went to a place there, and they just had acres and acres of
poor woods.
Well, I'll just be plain.
I hate to say it, but they were very poor woods.
The signs of old fires everywhere.
You can still see the smutty bark way up on the side of the little old scrawny pine trees there.
They were still struggling, though, trying to go.
And most of the woods that we went through this particular trip was just run down, and, well, they wasn't looked after or attended to or anything.
Fire would go through them every year, and they'd
Well, it just got to where they're in the neighborhood, and everybody just called them just a piece of wood.
That's all.
That's all it was.
Well, sure, that's all it was because it got that away because it's burned every year.
Now, this forestry fellow, this friend of mine, he sized it up this way.
He said in too many places, some of the folks still don't care whether the wood's burned or not.
Ain't that amazing?
And still, in some places, people don't care whether the wood's burned or not.
We see it, and I'm satisfied you see it.
Yet these same people that don't care whether the woods burn every year or not, they wonder why they don't get the same prices for their poor, burnt, fire-scarred timber as the other folks for their nice, clean timber.
Now let Forrester fella put it this way.
He says, just as long as some folks look on their woods and forest lands as this land that ain't worth much, there's gonna be fire.
Ain't that bad?
Here's a tune here.
Let's play a tune, boys.
I'll get started and can't stop.
Here's Jack to sing this next tune.
Jack does a good job on it.
Have at it, son.
Why should we try any more?
What's the use to deny we've been living a lie that we should have admitted before?
We were just victims of a half-hearted love, so why should we try anymore?
The vows that we make are only to pray.
We drift like the wave from the shore.
The kisses we steal, we know we're not real.
So why should we try anymore?
Yes, darling.
I stole the rest.
On the path, let's close the door And smile, don't regret, but live and forget There's no use to try anymore
What's the use to deny we've been living the lie that we should have admitted before?
We were just victims of a half-hearted love.
There's no use to try anymore.
Thank you there, Jackson.
Thank you, friends.
That was Jack Youngblood.
Jack Hank Youngblood.
Singing, why?
Well, that's mighty fine, Jack.
We'll let you come back up here in a few minutes.
I want you to get that fiddle ready to play a hoedown here in a few minutes.
First, I wanted to tell another story here.
I got on this storytelling, you know.
I made several trips with this friend of mine, that forestry boy there.
He carried me through some woods where he'd help the owners to help themselves.
That's just putting it plain, you know.
He'd help them to help themselves.
One case, a farmer had about 60 acres of wood there, and somebody come along there, some leatherhead offered him $200 for all the poop wood on this 20 acres.
Now, think of that.
Well, it meant just about cleaning all the timber off this area that he'd been keeping the fire out of, and it was really pretty.
For years, he'd kept the fire, and it was really pretty stuff.
Well, he was about in mind to sell there one time, but, uh,
My buddy there, the forester man, he had a talk with him, and he showed him how this, showed him just what good timber he had and how it was growing and coming right along, giving him a little piece of advice there.
And the result was that this farmer, he sold only specially marked timber.
He went out there and marked this timber with the help of this forester boy.
And friends, he sold $210 worth.
Well, that's $10 more than this guy offered him for all of it.
Just clean it off and leave it back.
And now he's still got a good stand of trees there for another sale.
Now this fellow, he's helping his neighbor and trying to encourage them to do the same thing they would.
Another case I know of, we went out and visited a widow woman.
And this widow woman was in bad need of some cash there for some reason or other.
My friend, the forestry boy, told me there one time she got in a hurry for some cash, and she figured the quickest way to get it was sell-offs on her saw law.
She had some beautiful timber there.
And the first thing she thought of would sell some of this timber.
So she got a bid on it and some leather head offered her $600 for it, all the saw logs, on all this nice timber.
Well, this forestry friend of mine, he gave her a little advice and helped her and they're always ready to do.
They marked certain trees for saw logs and they had them cut and they cleaned up the tops of pulpwood.
Friends, believe it or not, this poor wooded woman here wound up with $1,200 out of it.
Now, that's twice as much as she'd been offered the first time.
Now, she's still got a good stand of pine left on the land.
She's got fire lanes plowed all around it and keeps fire out.
And she's one of the lot of folks who know that to grow good timber, you've got to keep fire out.
Jack, how about you coming up here, buddy?
We got a lot of old-timers out there listening, I'm sure.
I'll tell you what I want you to do, Jack.
On this particular program, I want you to change the tune of that fiddle and play a real old-time fiddle tune.
Reach way back and just change the tune of it.
Go ahead and change the tune of it, and I'll stand here and tell them.
No, go right ahead and tune it.
That's what I want you to do.
Just go ahead and tune it up.
Friends, Jack is an old-time fiddle player, and he's going to cross-cord this fiddle.
I know a lot of you have heard fellas playing cross chords, but you probably never heard one tune it and change it all at the same time.
But that's what Jack's going through right now.
He's tuned it.
He's got the thing up to his ear, and he's twisting his face and spitting in his ears, and he's going to drag a stick across it here in just a few minutes.
Are you ready, Jackson?
Got it, Tim?
Hurry up, son.
I'm running short on time here.
Anyhow, friends, when he gets this fiddle cross-corded, you old-timers out there know you're going to enjoy this.
I can just see you out there now.
Let's pull up the chair there and spit in the fire.
And Jack will get that fiddle ready.
You got it ready there, Jack?
I'm not ready.
Go ahead.
Jack says he's not ready, but here we're going.
It's our black mountain rag.
Jack.
All right.
THE END
Well, all right, Jack.
I told you he'd have the bug for us flying there, friends, when he did get it tuned.
That was pretty good fiddling there, Jack, and I know a lot of our old-time friends out there really enjoyed it, and we sincerely hope you did.
Friends, we've run out of time here due to the clock on the wall.
Said we got to go.
We hate it, but we've enjoyed this visit, William.
We want you to know that, friends.
Here's just a little thought that I'd like to leave with you before we rush off here.
I'd like for you to think this over.
Here's something to keep in mind.
Timber owners, I'm talking to you.
For good grade timber and highest prices, you can't burn your trees and have them, too.
Well, friends, there it is, all wrapped up, signed, sealed, and delivered.
The time's come when we've got to go.
We've enjoyed sitting here under those pine trees.
Yes, sir, we've enjoyed this little visit with you.
We hope to see you again real soon.
If you'll listen to your local announcer, he'll let you know when we'll be back.
Friends, don't forget, this little get-together is made possible, brought to you with the best wishes and compliments from your own State Forest Service and Uncle Sam's Forest Service, with the cooperation of the station that you're now listening to.
Remember, friends, only you can prevent woods fire.